SOFTWARE LICENSING AGREEMENT

The following is a legal agreement between you, the end user, and 
Yamaha Corporation ("Yamaha"). The enclosed Yamaha software program 
is licensed by Yamaha to the original purchaser for use only on the 
terms set forth herein. Please read this licensing agreement with 
care. Taking the floppy disk out of the package indicates that you 
accept all terms outlined herein. If you do not agree to the terms, 
return this floppy disk to Yamaha without taking out of the package.

1. GRANT OF LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT 
Yamaha grants you, the original purchaser, the right to use one copy 
of the enclosed software program and data ("SOFTWARE") on a 
single-user computer system. You may not use it on more than one 
computer or computer terminal. The SOFTWARE is owned by Yamaha and is 
protected by Japanese copyright laws and all applicable international 
treaty provisions. You are entitled to claim ownership of the media 
in which the SOFTWARE is included. Therefore, you must treat the 
SOFTWARE like any other copyrighted materials.

2. RESTRICTIONS 
The SOFTWARE program is copyrighted. You may not engage in reverse 
engineering or reproduction of the SOFTWARE by other conceivable 
methods. You may not reproduce, modify, change, rent, lease, resell, 
or distribute the SOFTWARE in whole or in part, or create derivative 
works from the SOFTWARE. You may not transmit or network the SOFTWARE 
with other computers.
You may transfer ownership of the SOFTWARE and the accompanying 
written materials on a permanent basis provided that you retain no 
copies and the recipient agrees to the terms of the licensing 
agreement.

3. TERMINATION 
The licensing condition of the software program becomes effective on 
the day that you receive the SOFTWARE. If any one of the copyright 
laws or clauses of the licensing conditions is violated, the licensing 
agreement shall be terminated automatically without notice from Yamaha. 
In this case, you must destroy the licensed SOFTWARE and its copies 
immediately.

4. PRODUCT WARRANTY 
Yamaha warrants to the original purchaser that if the SOFTWARE, when 
used in normal conditions, will not perform the functions described 
in the manual provided by Yamaha, the sole remedy will be that Yamaha 
will replace any media which proves defective in materials or 
workmanship on an exchange basis without charge. Except as expressly 
set forth above, the SOFTWARE is provided "as is," and no other 
warranties, either expressed or implied, are made with respect to 
this software, including, without limitation the implied warranties 
of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. 

5. LIMITED LIABILITY 
Your sole remedies and Yamaha's entire liability are as set forth 
above. In no event will Yamaha be liable to you or any other person 
for any damages, including without limitation any incidental or 
consequential damages, expenses, lost profits, lost savings or other 
damages arising out of the use or inability to use such SOFTWARE even 
if Yamaha or an authorized dealer has been advised of the possibility 
of such damages, or for any claim by any other party.

6. GENERAL 
This license agreement shall be interpreted according to and governed 
by Japanese laws. 




